README.md, before:

# PHP Apache Container (Built with Ansible)

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/geerlingguy/php-apache-container.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/geerlingguy/php-apache-container) [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/geerlingguy/php-apache.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/geerlingguy/php-apache "Get your own image badge on microbadger.com")

This project is in it's early stages. _There will be bugs!_ You may be better served using the [official PHP Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/_/php/) if it meets your requirements.

This project is composed of three main parts:

  - **Ansible project**: This project is maintained on GitHub: [geerlingguy/php-apache-container](https://github.com/geerlingguy/php-apache-container). Please file issues, support requests, etc. against this GitHub repository.
  - **Docker Hub Image**: If you just want to use [the `geerlingguy/php-apache` Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/geerlingguy/php-apache/) in your project, you can pull it from Docker Hub.
  - **Ansible Role**: If you need a flexible Ansible role that's compatible with both traditional servers and containerized builds, check out [`geerlingguy.php`](https://galaxy.ansible.com/geerlingguy/php/) on Ansible Galaxy. (This is the Ansible role that does the bulk of the work in managing the PHP container.)

## Versions

Currently maintained versions include:

  - `7.2`, `7.2.x`, `latest`: PHP 7.2.x
  - `7.1`, `7.1.x`: PHP 7.1.x
  - `7.0`, `7.0.x`: PHP 7.0.x
  - `5.6`, `5.6.x`: PHP 5.6.x

## Standalone Usage

If you want to use the `geerlingguy/php-apache` image from Docker Hub, you don't need to install or use this project at all. You can quickly build a PHP container locally with:

    docker run -d --name=php -p 80:80 geerlingguy/php-apache:latest /usr/sbin/apache2ctl -D FOREGROUND

You can also wrap up that configuration in a `Dockerfile` and/or a `docker-compose.yml` file if you want to keep things simple. For example:

    ```
    version: "3"
    
    services:
      php:
        image: geerlingguy/php-apache:latest
        container_name: php-apache
        ports:
          - "80:80"
        restart: always
        # See 'Custom PHP codebase' for instructions for volumes.
        volumes: []
        command: ["/usr/sbin/apache2ctl", "-D", "FOREGROUND"]

Then run:

    docker-compose up -d

Now you should be able to access the default home page at `http://localhost/`.

### Custom PHP codebase

If you have a codebase inside the folder `web`, mount it as a volume like `-v ./web:/var/www/html:rw,delegated`.

Or, if using a Docker Compose file:

    services:
      myapp:
        ...
        volumes:
          - ./web:/var/www/html:rw,delegated

If you wish to build an image using this image as the base (e.g. for deploying to production), create a Dockerfile and `COPY` the webroot into place so it's part of the image.

If you want to run multiple webroots, or need to further customize the Apache VirtualHost definitions, you can mount a config file over the existing one in the container, e.g.:

    services:
      myapp:
        ...
        volumes:
          - ./web:/var/www/html:rw,delegated
          - ./virtualhosts.conf:/etc/apache2/sites-enabled/vhosts.conf:rw

Similarly, you can mount a PHP config file to the path `/etc/php/TODO`.

## Management with Ansible

### Prerequisites

Before using this project to build and maintain PHP images for Docker, you need to have the following installed:

  - [Docker Community Edition](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/) (for Mac, Windows, or Linux)
  - [Ansible](http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/installation_guide/intro_installation.html)

### Build the image

    ansible-playbook main.yml

Once the image is built, you can run `docker images` to see the `TODO` image that was generated.

### Push the image to Docker Hub

Currently, the process for updating this image on Docker Hub is manual. Eventually this will be automated via Travis CI.

  1. Log into Docker Hub on the command line:

         docker login --username=geerlingguy

  1. Tag the latest version (only if this is the latest/default version):

         docker tag [image id] geerlingguy/php-apache:latest

  1. Tag the Solr major version:

         docker tag [image id] geerlingguy/php-apache:7.2 # or 7.1, etc.
         docker tag [image id] geerlingguy/php-apache:7.2.5 # the specific version

  1. Push tags to Docker Hub:

         docker push geerlingguy/php-apache:latest # (if this was just tagged)
         docker push geerlingguy/php-apache:7.2 # or 7.1, etc.
         docker push geerlingguy/php-apache:7.2.5 # the specific version

## License

MIT / BSD

## Author Information

This container build was created in 2018 by [Jeff Geerling](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/), author of [Ansible for DevOps](https://www.ansiblefordevops.com/).

Commit message:

Fix broken test by adding ansible-galaxy install command.

README.md, after:

# PHP Apache Container (Built with Ansible)

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/geerlingguy/php-apache-container.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/geerlingguy/php-apache-container) [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/geerlingguy/php-apache.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/geerlingguy/php-apache "Get your own image badge on microbadger.com")

This project is in it's early stages. _There will be bugs!_ You may be better served using the [official PHP Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/_/php/) if it meets your requirements.

This project is composed of three main parts:

  - **Ansible project**: This project is maintained on GitHub: [geerlingguy/php-apache-container](https://github.com/geerlingguy/php-apache-container). Please file issues, support requests, etc. against this GitHub repository.
  - **Docker Hub Image**: If you just want to use [the `geerlingguy/php-apache` Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/geerlingguy/php-apache/) in your project, you can pull it from Docker Hub.
  - **Ansible Role**: If you need a flexible Ansible role that's compatible with both traditional servers and containerized builds, check out [`geerlingguy.php`](https://galaxy.ansible.com/geerlingguy/php/) on Ansible Galaxy. (This is the Ansible role that does the bulk of the work in managing the PHP container.)

## Versions

Currently maintained versions include:

  - `7.2`, `7.2.x`, `latest`: PHP 7.2.x
  - `7.1`, `7.1.x`: PHP 7.1.x
  - `7.0`, `7.0.x`: PHP 7.0.x
  - `5.6`, `5.6.x`: PHP 5.6.x

## Standalone Usage

If you want to use the `geerlingguy/php-apache` image from Docker Hub, you don't need to install or use this project at all. You can quickly build a PHP container locally with:

    docker run -d --name=php-apache -p 80:80 geerlingguy/php-apache:latest /usr/sbin/apache2ctl -D FOREGROUND

You can also wrap up that configuration in a `Dockerfile` and/or a `docker-compose.yml` file if you want to keep things simple. For example:

    ```
    version: "3"
    
    services:
      php-apache:
        image: geerlingguy/php-apache:latest
        container_name: php-apache
        ports:
          - "80:80"
        restart: always
        # See 'Custom PHP codebase' for instructions for volumes.
        volumes: []
        command: ["/usr/sbin/apache2ctl", "-D", "FOREGROUND"]

Then run:

    docker-compose up -d

Now you should be able to access the default home page at `http://localhost/`.

### Custom PHP codebase

If you have a codebase inside the folder `web`, mount it as a volume like `-v ./web:/var/www/html:rw,delegated`.

Or, if using a Docker Compose file:

    services:
      myapp:
        ...
        volumes:
          - ./web:/var/www/html:rw,delegated

If you wish to build an image using this image as the base (e.g. for deploying to production), create a Dockerfile and `COPY` the webroot into place so it's part of the image.

If you want to run multiple webroots, or need to further customize the Apache VirtualHost definitions, you can mount a config file over the existing one in the container, e.g.:

    services:
      myapp:
        ...
        volumes:
          - ./web:/var/www/html:rw,delegated
          - ./virtualhosts.conf:/etc/apache2/sites-enabled/vhosts.conf:rw

Similarly, you can mount a PHP config file to the path `/etc/php/7.2/apache2/php.ini` (substitute whatever PHP version you're currently using in that path).

## Management with Ansible

### Prerequisites

Before using this project to build and maintain PHP images for Docker, you need to have the following installed:

  - [Docker Community Edition](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/) (for Mac, Windows, or Linux)
  - [Ansible](http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/installation_guide/intro_installation.html)

### Build the image

First, install Ansible role requirements:

    ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yml

Then, make sure Docker is running, and run the playbook to build the container:

    ansible-playbook main.yml

Once the image is built, you can run `docker images` to see the `php-apache` image that was generated.

### Push the image to Docker Hub

Currently, the process for updating this image on Docker Hub is manual. Eventually this will be automated via Travis CI.

  1. Log into Docker Hub on the command line:

         docker login --username=geerlingguy

  1. Tag the latest version (only if this is the latest/default version):

         docker tag [image id] geerlingguy/php-apache:latest

  1. Tag the Solr major version:

         docker tag [image id] geerlingguy/php-apache:7.2 # or 7.1, etc.
         docker tag [image id] geerlingguy/php-apache:7.2.5 # the specific version

  1. Push tags to Docker Hub:

         docker push geerlingguy/php-apache:latest # (if this was just tagged)
         docker push geerlingguy/php-apache:7.2 # or 7.1, etc.
         docker push geerlingguy/php-apache:7.2.5 # the specific version

## License

MIT / BSD

## Author Information

This container build was created in 2018 by [Jeff Geerling](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/), author of [Ansible for DevOps](https://www.ansiblefordevops.com/).
